
.TH PASSGEN 1 "July 2024" "1.0" "Passgen Reference Guide"
.SH NAME
Passgen \- Passgen is an open-source command-line utility designed to generate secure passwords 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Passgen
[\fIOption\fR] [\fIOutput\fR].
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBPassgen\fR is an open-source command-line utility designed to generate secure passwords with various customizable options. It ensures strong, random passwords suitable for different security needs, from everyday use to high-security environments.

password command can create passwords that include uppercase letters, lowercase letters, digits, and special characters. Users can specify the length of the password and other characteristics to meet specific requirements.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
Specify the length of the password.
.TP
.B \-o
Save the generated password to the specified file path, or to file.txt in the current directory if no path is given.
.TP
.B \-n
Exclude digits (0-9).
.TP
.B \-U
Exclude uppercase letters (A-Z).
.TP
.B \-L
Exclude lowercase letters (a-z).
.TP
.B \-s
Exclude special characters (!@#$%^&*()_+[]{}|;:,.<>?).
.TP
.B \-c
 Copy the generated password to the clipboard.
.TP
.B \-h
 Display help message and exit.
 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Example usage:
.PP
.EX
passgen \-l 14
passgen \-o path/file.txt
passgen \-no path/file.txt \-l 11
.EE
.SH LICENSE

 PassGen - Generates passwords
 Copyright (C) 2024  Ahad Fallah

 This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

 This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
.EX
Written by Ahad Fallah.
Report bugs at https://github.com/AhadFallah/passgen/issues
.EE
